Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, this is Esther's Keith Orville bringing you
the first in a series of television programs from the nation's capital, where we will
review from time to time the Seedings in Congress and happenings of importance are going
on in Washington.
Last year we did this for five minutes once a week.
This year in order to have more depth in the news and be able to have more distinguished
guests on the program we are going to take 15 minutes.
Now, I certainly appreciate the station carrying this program as a public service.
I will appreciate you writing me in a suggestions about the program so that we can make it more
useful and more informative.
Today, we are highly honored to have on our next program or be four weeks from today.
Today we are highly honored to have with us the new majority leader, the Democratic
leader of the United States Senate.
We had a able and efficient leader in Senator Lyndon B. Johnson for the past eight or
nine years.
Senator Johnson has been elevated to the vice presidency, as all of you know.
And succeeding him is the distinguished senator from Montana, Mike Mansfield.
I think it's certainly good to have you.
You were elected by unanimous vote of all of the Democratic senators.
We thank you for your efficient able, that you will carry out the program for the good
of the people.
And I want you to say introduce you to the people of Tennessee.
Well, as to say, I only hope that I can live up to the high hopes, the high expectations
that you and my other colleagues have placed in me.
I have no illusions about the job, but I'm depending upon people like you and others to help
me over the rough spots.
We'll do our best collectively to reinforce the Kennedy program and to try and get this
country back on an even keel and to bring some stability in the field of foreign relations.
Well, Mike, you've been our very effective whip.
That's the second in command for a number of years.
We all know of your ability, your sincerity, your great integrity, and your forward-looking
ideas about what's good for our nation and what's good for our best chance of having peace
in the world.
And you can certainly count on all of us to help you in every way that we possibly can.
Incidentally, folks, Senator Mansfield is no stranger to Tennessee.
We've served in a house of representatives from 1943 until I left in 1948, and then
you came to the Senate in 1950, I believe, Mike.
Back in 1954, when I was running for my second term in the United States Senate, Senator
Mansfield was good enough to come down to Cookville, Tennessee, where he made the opening speech
in my campaign during that year.
A lot of people in Nashville and Cookville remember you very pleasantly.
You remember that occasion?
Esther, I certainly do, and I remember the final speech that you ever made to.
Well, the reason was because it was one of the nicest groups I've ever faced.
But you know, I want to go back to Tennessee someday to spend some time in the mountains and
the western part of your state to look over the TVA and see the benefits it's brought to
your people.
And incidentally, you know there's a great deal of similarity between Montana and Tennessee.
We have mountains, we have dams, we have rivers that need controlling, and you may be surprised.
Everybody thinks that people from Tennessee always migrate to Texas, but we have a good
many Tennessee and South Montana, and I'm happy to say they're a good demifact.
Well, that's right, Mike.
I was out there during the last campaign, and I saw a lot of them serve at the Tour de Moles
in the Vaux-Ovoat right.
We want you to come back because we both of our states are developing.
We have great plans for the future, and we want you to bring Maureen down sometime, and
the session is not so pectic and enjoy our mountains, the TVA and our people.
Well, Mike, what's the program?
First let's say, talk about the members of the cabinet and the official family that President
of that kind of he has designated.
I think that he has a fine team in the field with foreign affairs.
I think he has experienced people, and I think he's getting a well all-around group of
people to carry a part of his new frontier program.
What is your feeling about it?
I agree with you, Estes.
I think that he's made a wonderful set of selections so far.
It is anticipated that beginning very shortly, the appropriate committees in the Senate will
start hearings on these nominees so that we can bring them to the floor of the Senate
shortly after the inaugural for confirmation.
And after that, we will, of course, expect the committees likewise to start hearings before
the inauguration on the various legislative proposals, which President-elect Kennedy has
announced during the course of his campaign and since.
Mike, as much as he has picked good people in, and as much as the Senate always respects
the rise in the desire of the President to have the people that he wants to help him,
I wouldn't anticipate any trouble on any confirmation of any of the cabinet members
that you've...
No, I dare say that all of them will be approved fairly expeditiously, and I look for
little friction, little argument, and fairly speedy consideration and approval.
Mike, I've been telling everybody that I thought there were so many problems in the world,
both domestically with unemployment and difficulties we're having here at home as well as many
tactic problems and international affairs.
I thought we would have very good teamwork both among the insiports, the Democrats are
concerned, and insofar as the Republicans are concerned, at least far as considerable
period of time, a good honeymoon with...
Do you think that will be true?
Yes, I think so, especially in the field of foreign policy, I believe that both parties
will place the interest of the country ahead of the interest of their particular parties.
I think even in the field of domestic affairs that will not feed the friction, which
are great many anticipate because many Republicans will vote for these programs and do so all
the more willingly because they are now not under pressure from the White House to vote
the way the White House wants them to.
So I look forward to a period of harmony and unity.
There may be a few squabbles here and there, but it wouldn't be a Senate or a Democratic
party if we didn't have these squabbles occasionally.
I anticipate that we'll carry through the President's program in fairly good fashion,
and I would hope that when this session of the Congress is concluded, we would be judged
not under quantity of the legislation which we passed, but rather the quality.
Well, that's what we all hope for and let's hope the honeymoon lasts as long as possible
and we can get the President's program over and get some things done for the people and
improve our situation in the world.
On our Mr. Majority Leader, Mike, we are now engaged in a fight about the amendment of
rule 22, which is the, as all of you know, is the rule about the termination of the
date and preventing lengthy filibusters.
What is the situation about that?
Are we going to be able to get that behind us pretty soon?
I would hope so, Estes.
I would imagine that there will be a motion to table or move the previous question and
do time.
That will bring this matter to a head and then we will be able to get on to the business
of the President's program.
You know, I think people ought to recognize the fact that while there is a need for some
reform in rule 22, that the important thing now is to get the President's program underway.
Then, confesses a great many facets in the field of our domestic economy, housing,
for example, which is in a terrible slump at the present time and which will do much
to create employment for our people.
The depressed area is, and I'm sure you have some of them down in your state as I have
in mind.
Mike, on that subject, depressed areas, we are getting more letters about that than most
in the other subject.
We have some 76 communities where they do have severe unemployment, particularly in
cool mining sections like in Marians, the Quatsy and Grondi County where the coal is running
out and it's expensive to manage it and we have some very bad situations so that bill
is greatly needed in many parts of Tennessee as it is elsewhere.
Do you think, of course, we passed a bill one time in Congress and you got vetoed as
that?
That's right, Paul.
But now we have a President who will not be to a bill of that kind and I think we can
pass the bill more in keeping with the realities of the situation.
And Mike, about unemployment, unemployment is a pretty high peak.
And what is your feeling about the best thing we can do in the most expeditious land to
try to enable people to get back to work properly?
Well, I think we ought to engage upon the President's program, aged depressed areas, both
rural and urban, a housing program which will spur the construction industry and give
sustenance to our people, aid to education, raising the minimum wage, all these are important
and all of them are necessary because if my information is correct by about the first
of February, we will have something on the order of five million, perhaps more unemployed.
Now this has been referred to during the course of the late campaign as a quote, pause,
unquote, in our economy.
I hope it is not the pause that he presses.
It is certainly something which calls for action with a man like Kennedy in the White House.
Action will be taken to try and alleviate the situations in what you, in these areas
you referred to, sometimes known as pockets of poverty, so that men and women able and
willing will have the opportunity and the right to work and achieve a decent livelihood.
Well, Mike, I always heard that I feel that a good housing program, and we had two vetoed
last year and we finally got through a very, very watered-down housing program which is
not adequate at all.
But do more to spur and to increase employment immediately than almost anything else, not
only in the timber industry and among construction workers, but also in the factories where they
make frigidaires, stoves, and cuters and furnaces.
So I imagine that will be how on the priority list.
It will indeed, and what you said is correct because it goes far beyond the building of a
house that affects so many other fields of economic endeavor, that what it does is create
employment as it goes along and I think we ought to do something to overcome the terrible
slump and housing evident this past year.
And Mike and Montana, you are interested in the development of the harnessing of the
Columbia and the Missouri River and other rivers.
We in Tennessee, of course, are very proud of the Tennessee Valley Authority and for the
information of all you've got folks as Senator and Mansfield, both as a Congressman and
as a Senator, has always been a power strength for the Tennessee Valley Authority to protect
it, to Father It and so we feel madigued on that score that he is the majority leader.
Well, let's just let me tell you this, that it was because of your constant and unfailing
championship of the TVA that you were so easily able to convert so many of us to cause
and to keep us under your banner.
Well, of course, Senator Gore and I are very much for the TVA, but that's how you feel
otherwise you wouldn't have been so enthusiastic, Mike.
But resource development and building up our country will be a vital part of the program
of the President and of the Congress.
Very vital part.
In the minute or two remaining, Mike, how about the development of our greats national
parts?
You have a, we have a smokey mountain national part and you have Yellowstone and glacier.
Glacier and others, we need to give them more attention, much is that.
Yes indeed.
Considering more attention, I would hope that the Mission 66 program would be accentuated,
that the amounts of money which must be spent would be put into our parts because they
do represent an investment in which all America can participate and I think that if we do
not undertake a program of this kind that we will be the losers and the results may well
be that the parts will be carried still further.
Well, Mike, we don't have much time remaining, but we've seen that you've been have a package
for the reform of the electoral college of which I'm interested to.
Will that be part of the program?
No, that is my own personal idea, but I think something ought to be done about the electoral
college, something ought to be done about the length and the cost of campaigns and something
ought to be done about the interregnum between the election and the title of president takes
over.
Well, I certainly agree with you and I have been working on that myself as you know for
a number of years.
Well, thank you very much, Senator Manstale.
You are a great leader and a great friend of the people of this nation and of Tennessee.
Asters is a pleasure.
And ladies and gentlemen, until four weeks from now, that's all.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, this is the second telecast, bringing you the
news from Washington, which I'm very honored to present.
And on this occasion, we are very happy to have with us the distinguished member of Congress
from Tennessee from the fourth congressional district, the Honorable Joe Evans.
Joe is beginning his eighth term as a member of the House of Representatives.
He is a member of the Appropriations Committee.
And I want to tell all of you people of Tennessee, not only of your fourth district, Joe, but
everyone that you are a very hardworking, effective member of the House of Representatives.
And we certainly are glad to have you here.
Most younger.
Joe, I came up here in 1933 in March for the passage of the lame document to the inauguration
of President Roosevelt.
And of course, we were all here during this current inauguration.
And I haven't talked with you people since then.
During all of the snow and slush and the cold winds, most of us called bad colds.
But I don't think there has been as much enthusiasm or as large a crowd inside of the
cool weather in town as there was for the Mr. Canada's inauguration.
Yes, it was a great outpouring of people's mall over the country.
And we were certainly privileged to have a great number of our friends from Tennessee.
It was truly a great inaugural, great occasion, and we lived through the snow.
And we had three bands from Tennessee, and other states just had one.
So we got to...
Well, ed, John, let me mention a couple of those outstanding bands from the fourth district
of Tennessee from the University of South at Siwani and also the Muffersburg band.
They were very proud of them.
And then he and I won the draw and they had a band in Marstown.
I had promised people in Marstown that, certainly they were very excellent band.
And would be invited to Marstown in the parade when the National Honors last year.
I thought that they only wanted one from one state.
So I got Jigs Donahue, the parade chairman, let them march in place of the Virgin Houses,
which didn't send the band up here.
But Tennessee played a big part.
I had the feeling, Joe, that during inauguration and what's been happening since is quite similar
to the situation in 1933 when President Roosevelt took over.
Of course, there was a tremendous domestic recession and depression at that time.
Roosevelt was not well under the domestic front, but we don't have this bad situation.
But we do have great international problems.
Then as now, it was a time for great leadership, for affirmative action.
And I think our president has been showing that in his inaugural address.
I mean, his message is to the Congress, don't you?
Yes, yes, this is the president delivered a great inaugural address.
And I think all of us at the Congress have been impressed with the great speech which he delivered
before the joint strikes of the Congress.
His first message on the state of the Union.
Well, Joe, I felt at this speech, he stated just as he saw it, without missing any words,
without trying to cover over anything.
The pictures he saw it today, economically.
That is, we have a lot of bad situations that we have to, but they're not hopeless.
And that in the international affairs and among relations to the world, we have lost some
standing.
There has been some deterioration, a fair again, with leadership, with sacrifice that we
can bring about a better condition.
I thought it was a very forthright fine assessment.
And after all, the American people ought to know exactly where we stand.
Well, certainly he discussed domestic issues, but he greatly pointed up our troubled spots
in the world and indicated that America would not be second to the Indian nation in power
and strength.
It was a message of security and national defense.
The President certainly has a precise mind and a factual knowledge of the grasp of things
already.
He's reaching through to the public and his views, offering a program to the Congress.
Well, I thought not only in the state of the Union message, as well as the inaugural message
of his, not only what he had to say, but the force of which he delivered his speech,
the dedication and the cheers he has.
As tos, you know that the President, John F. Kennedy and I were classmates together,
we came to Congress at the same time, and my classmate has now become President.
1946.
I was there with you in 1946 and 1947, and I came over to the Senate and your classmate
joined us, and I remember that.
At first session, when you and I served together in the House, I didn't get to see you very
much.
You were campaigning for the Senate.
Well, you know, you have to do that sometimes.
Well, I have a feeling also that somewhere to what we had in 1933 that we have a lot of
new faces around, a lot of young people with vision.
They call them a new frontier.
A new frontier, and who audited sang that song, said, the country was in the best of hands.
Is that David Crocket?
Good day.
Well, I know that there are a lot of fine, capable young men and women who have come into
government service with great dedication.
Many of them making sacrifices.
I feel that by and large, Mr. Kennedy has gotten very good men to advise and work with
them.
Certainly, he has surrounded himself with some very able men.
Even the former President has committed him on his selection of his cabinet and said
that he had been able to attract some of these very outstanding men as his assistants
and any staff.
The reason he nominated is Joe Svetler, who used to be General Counselor for the Tennessee
Valley Authority to be chairman of the Federal Power Commission.
And a very significant selection.
I was very pleased that the President selected him to become chairman.
There's a very important commission.
He comes from Nashville, where he's been practicing law since he left the TVA.
And I think he's a fair man.
I think he's forceful.
I think he has the viewpoint of the consumer.
And believe me, we've been needing that viewpoint in the Federal Power Commission.
Well, the landish reporters, you know, or criticize the operation of the Federal Power
Commission among all of the independent agencies as the one who is least functioning properly
in the public interest in the last few years.
It administers the Natural Gas Act and the granting of franchises on the construction
of great power dams throughout the nation.
It's a very important commission.
I think Mr. Svetler will make a very excellent chairman.
But Joe, of course, there have been a whole lot of menus the last few days about the
fight in the House of Representatives over the change in the rules committee.
And you've been right there where it's been taking place, where the fire has been going
on.
So tell us about what the shootings all of them are.
Well, as you know, at the beginning of each new session of the Congress, both the House
and the Senate adopt rules of procedure for their individual bodies.
The House has already adopted for the 87th Congress the same rules of procedure as were
employed in 86th Congress.
But while adopting the same rules, we have been evaluated and considering the operations
of the committee, whether it has been read through the functioning, the real issue and
the rules committee vote was whether or not the elected representatives of all the people,
the entire House should have a right to work its will, where they should have a right to vote
on legislation, or where they're a very small group or a handful, a very small minority
who votes at 12th.
Well, even in 2003, with their vote could tie up legislation, it has been charges that
bills have been pigeonholed, it has been a roadblock, and even vetoed.
And certain legislation has not been permitted to reach the floor of the House.
Now, let us take a bill that has been debated for weeks and for months before a standing
legislative committee of the Congress.
After the bill has been discussed, public hearings have been had, and the majority of the
membership vote upon a bill, then the function of the rules committee is to orderly proceed
onto the floor with the majors for the House to debate and consider.
If, historic—
I mean, the time and the day and—
Yes, and the numbers of bills that will flow onto the floor, they schedule them as old
traffic, where to pass along.
The rules committee is not supposed to be a dead end street, it's supposed to be a committee
to orderly permit legislation to come onto the floor for debate and consideration.
Now, there has been instances in which maybe there are many bills that shouldn't pass.
I know in the past I have voted for a rule to bring a bill on the floor to debate it,
which is democratic.
It certainly is democratic to have a free discussion of a measure, even controversial measures.
But then after the bill was debated, after it was possibly amended and made noxious,
I would vote against it on final passage.
But the real issue is whether the full elected representatives should have a right to debate
and to the vote upon legislation, or whether a few of the very small minority should block
legislation and deny the House the right to exercise its will.
Speaker Rayman said, it's certainly the House, the elected representatives of the people,
should have the right to vote upon legislation.
The rules committee is not a committee on legislation, it's an administrative committee,
it's an oral of the leadership historically, it goes with the leadership.
Well, Joe, thank you very much for telling us about the issue and certainly if we're going
to get a new program over the entire membership of the House of Representatives, all they
have a chance to do.
Well, we're down.
My committee on appropriations has 50 members and the membership of this committee has been
increased since I have been here.
The rules committee used to recompose to five members.
Later it was nine.
At another time there were 14 and in the last few years they've settled on 12, which is
an even number conducive to a tie vote, six to six.
So there have been a lot of tie votes and legislation is not reached the floor.
So it's nothing unusual to change a committee of the Congress.
As a matter of fact, we adopted a resolution allowing the speaker and the minority leader
to adjust the ratio of members of the committee.
This committee had been composed of 12 members, now it will be composed of 15 with three additions,
two Democrats and one Republican.
By the way, the speaker had just announced, as you know, the two new Democratic members
of the committee.
They are a Congressman called Elliott of Alabama and BF Sisk of California.
They're both of them I know them, they're very substantial.
They're very sound, man, very good men.
Well, in the President's State of the Union message, he of course couldn't go into details
about all of the things he was going to do and there were some little criticism on that
part, but he's been acting very rapidly since that time.
He's issued for instance an executive order, expanding the surplus food distribution
principally by, and then also setting up food staff areas.
Now I hope that we'll get one in Tennessee.
I thought another very important thing he did was that the community facilities program,
which has only been applicable to sewers and water districts and water and gas has been
expanded so as to be applicable to anything else.
And incidentally, Joe, I've introduced a bill to enlarge the community facilities program
so as to have a revolving fund of $1 billion to be loaned on worthwhile projects that
a rate of interest, one for the above, what the government has to pay for its money.
As to say as a representative of a lot of our very excellent to small towns, I know that they
have benefited from this program for municipal water works, sidewalks, for libraries, for hospital
construction and various municipal and community improvements.
Right. These are things that not only need to be done, they have been many improvements.
They have been a loan program.
That's a loan program, but they've certainly given employment to a great many people.
And also, we've been housing starts have been almost dried up so that President has
lowered the interest rate by one quarter of a percent or one half a percent, no one fourth of
a percent on FHA home loans, which ought to help in that respect.
Then I think Joe that President was wise and following the suggestion of the joint
chiefs of staff and revoking the order about the dependence on having to be sent back.
I think that by trying to get them to restrict travel, tourism abroad and to buy their capital
equipment here in the country.
Let me say, Esther, so that I would certainly be for cutting down on some expenditures abroad,
but not at the expense of the American soldier and the American servicemen and their families.
Well, I was over the NATO parliamentarians conference shortly after this order went into effect,
and they backed on the morale of our soldiers, which evidently could be seen.
Certainly must be other ways where the same result can be accomplished.
But Joe, I want to tell you how good it is to have you over here with us, and we are going to have a
very exciting and I know a very useful session of Congress.
I hope that one of these days we can get you back to joining reporting to people of tennis.
Yes, yes, yes, you are very nice to invite me.
Ladies and gentlemen, until four weeks from today, and we will bring you another report,
that's all. Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of tennis see, today we are very happy to have on this program,
and I'm very proud to be able to introduce to all of you the distinguished Attorney General of the
United States, Robert Kennedy. And I want to say in that connection that I think that Mr.
Kennedy is making an excellent Attorney General. I was proud to support him.
I don't want to say too many things to embarrass him here in his presence, but as all of you know,
he is 35 years old and was the youngest Attorney General that we've had in more than 100 years.
I don't know what happened to that fellow Bob that was younger than you.
But then the event I think that Attorney General Kennedy is surrounding himself with
very able assistance that he is going to be a determined and active and courageous Attorney General.
And I think we'll be mighted proud of the record that he is going to make or that he is making.
We have a special interest in one person and your immediate staff, Mr. Attorney General,
that's John Seagunfailer. John was the assistant city editor of the National Tennis
See and how did you get mixed up with John? Well, we were investigating some three years ago,
I guess Senator, we were, I was counsel as Senator Rackett's Committee and we were investigating
a situation down in Tennessee involving some corruption and dishonesty involving a judge in
Tennessee and John Seagunfailer was the one that first brought it to our attention as well as
followed shortly afterwards by a number of your other citizens there and we made an investigation.
He held some hearings and he was very instrumental in uncovering information which was
ultimately revealed at our hearings and then later on you know, you're legislated, you picked it up
and the judge was impeached and I think that he covered that and was very helpful to them also.
So I get to know him then and he worked in the campaign with us. He was my administrative assistant
and when I was out speaking in the country he was really running the whole campaign and then so
after I was point to this position I asked him if he'd come and be my assistant here. So I think
that I'm very fortunate in having him. Well we all think that John is a very able man. I know he's
working awfully hard. Well I want to say folks that I think the new program our president Kennedy is
getting started off fine. There's a lot of activity. There are many plans to do many things that are
necessary such as the area redevelopment bill. He's gotten food out to the needy. We have
programs that will soon be before the Senate in connection with raising the minimum wage and
extending the coverage assistance to the aged medical assistance. So the things are really humming
in Washington. Of course there's a lot of confusion and difficulty and the transition from one
administration to another. A model sometime our president Kennedy stands all of the strain that must
be placed upon him during this very difficult time. Bob I know you see your brother John very often
positive feeling. Well I think very well as I believe you know Senator I don't think there's
anything that is more difficult than an arduous campaign. You went through the campaign and
Wisconsin I believe four years ago and we went through it just a year ago and I don't think anything
could be as tough as that and then the campaign no hamps you're traveling all around the country making
as many as 20 or 22 speeches a day and sleeping four or five hours that this actually
is less difficult physically than that kind of an operation. And then you mean being president is
less difficult in all this campaign? Certainly physically. They're all traveling and all that
strain of making speeches continuously. So I think that he's getting extremely healthy and very
good position to make some of these decisions. I think health makes a big difference if you're
healthy. You can meet these problems and difficulties much easier and I've never seen his health better
and it's been over the period of the last year or so and as I say I think that it's not a great
deal different than what he's been through in the past. Well I must say that when Senator Gore and I
went down to see him last week at time when President Jackson's portrait was put back up in the
conference room that he certainly looked well and very keen and interested in anxious to get
all of the ideas he could. That's a wonderful picture I think. Yes I think it is it should have
been up on the wall all the time. I have a very interesting letter that I obtained an auction some
years ago of President Jackson that he wrote just before the battle in New Orleans to his wife
telling about the positions of the British and what he anticipated for the future. Well that's
a very precious letter. Yes and a very touching letter too. Very touching. On any time that you
don't have some precious place to keep it I know the Hermitage would be glad to have it on there
among our precious documents. I think we have a state library that has a collection of
Andrew Jackson's letters and papers and no doubt you've seen it down. I did I visited there and I've
visited the Hermitage. I've got a also that was a very important moment over to me a
gavill that was sent by the governor which is taken from the desk of President Jackson when he
practiced when he was living in Nashville Tennessee. Yeah I believe Governor Beefard Ellington
brought that up to Washington. Yeah very nice. I have that on my desk at the turn. Do you ever have to
use it to keep your associates in order? I don't know. John seconds all occasionally but I'll
leave him there. I know some paper that you're a wonderful assistant, Byron, Wizard White. Yes.
He's got a little too nervous and has gone to the hospital. You're late. He said some
difficulty with his stomach but yeah. Well he's a wonderful fellow. One thing I think about
you and your outstanding brother and all of the candidates you have the tremendous energy
and interest in the power to relax which is what anyone in public office needs.
Well do you mind if I we talk a little bit about how things are going? How do you feel that the
new program is going generally? The new frontier? Well I think that we're making a good deal of progress
the senator I think of course it's early yet. It's only been I think it's 40 days from
the since denomination. I think that the President shown by the various programs that he's offered
that he feels it's necessary and essential that the country move again in many areas.
And here in the United States in our relationship with other countries and he's trying to take some
steps to get some of these programs accepted by Congress and accepted by the American people.
And I think there's some good deal of progress as being made. Of course I think that we all
have everybody appreciates the fact that before great many things can be done the cabinet members
have to have hearings before the committees and have to be confirmed and I believe that all the
cabinet members and practically all of the people who have to come before the senate to be confirmed
have been confirmed. That's correct. Yes. And I don't believe today that any of them have been turned
down. No they are. Which speaks not yet well for the people who are being selected. Well I
missed your attorney general or Bob if I may call you that and tell us I have the feeling that
that the attorney general's department of justice is really humming and that things are going
and everybody's working hard with the determination to enforce the law and to improve the enforcement
of the law. Tell us something about your plans. How about in the antitrust field where we
have had a shocking experience recently, finding the some officials in the electrical manufacturing
industry, fixing prices, talking things over violating the law and they've now some of them have
been sent to penal institution for and upon their plea of guilty. What about that? Well they're
going to be a number of cases that are going to arise out of those cases, Senator. And you are
well aware of it because I think that was first initially developed by your committee the facts
that which ultimately led up to their indictment and their conviction. There were sales for instance
to TBA where we're shown that the sales were handled through rig bidding. The contractors getting
together amongst themselves and determining what the prices should be, who should get the bid.
The government's now going to take action. I would think within about six weeks to try to
collect damages from the electro-compination and the areas in which they were defrauded. One of
the major areas will be in the TBA but there will be a number of other government agencies whose
contracts will be studied to determine whether we can also bring some action at the federal level.
We will continue to be working in this whole area of price fixing. I think it has a very important
effect on local communities. This is last electrical case at a nationwide effect but there are many
other similar cases which have an effect on a state or on a particular city or in a community.
We are investigating a number of those and I might say that we are extremely appreciative of
help and cooperation and the very important leads that we have received from your committee because
I think that that kind of information that you've given to the executive branch of the government
has been almost essential for us to proceed in these areas and I would hope that you will
in turn be continuing your hearing so that you have two branches of the government can work together
in this manner. Thank you, Bob. I've been the chairman of the Antitrust and Monopoly subcommittee for
a number of years and never have we received better cooperation or more sympathetic
attitude from anyone than we have from you as the new Attorney General. We did find that
beds out to the TVA or even though companies might be in different parts of the United States have
different labor costs even though they were secret beds that strangely they were identical
and that they were so often they would be a rotation so as to give the bed to some particular
company. I think the public ought to understand that this is very destructive of our free enterprise
system. It's a kind of thing that we cannot tolerate and we're going to work out along with you
and further investigations but this might be going on in other lands of industry and I suppose
that you and we will be looking at this also. Yes, yes. You made a great record as a General
Counsel or Chief Counsel of the Senate Records Committee headed up by Senator John McTweller in the
Arkansas. I admired your courage and your energy and thoroughness in carrying out the work of
that committee. I've been very pleased to know about your attitude and your determination to
do something to try to rid the nation of the at least check or stop where we can influence
the criminal element. Tell us something about that, Mr. Attorney General. Well, I think that the
situation since 1950 when you first developed these matters has become even more critical.
And I think that the is necessary and essential at the executive branch of the government step
in with a forceful program. I think rising the steps that will be taken rising out of the conference
that you and Senator Cullen and Jay Aguhover, the FBI and I had the Department of Justice
several weeks ago that there will be important steps taken. I don't think that this problem will
be solved overnight as both of us recognize. But I think we can take certain steps which will
make a major difference in many areas of the United States to stamp out organized crime.
Well, I know something about your plans and I'm certain that great benefits will come from it.
And I know that people all over the country who are interested in stamping out organized crime
better law enforcement are going to be encouraged. And after all the activity of people at the local
level is accounts very, very much doesn't it? That's certainly does.
Well, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Kennedy has been down to Tennessee on many occasions.
I know that many of you have met him and seen him. I know you will follow his career with a great
deal of interest. And let me say again that I think when the history of this administration has
written, I think that we will all record that he has been one of the great Attorney General's in
the history of our nation. We thank you very much Bob for the long program and see you again soon.
Thank you, sir. That's all for now.